.TH LIVE\-SNAPSHOT 1 "2007\-07\-30" "1.95.1" "live\-initramfs"

.SH NAME
live\-snapshot \- a simple script to ease persistence usage

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B live\-snapshot
.RB [\| \-c \||\| \-\-cow
.IR DIRECTORY ]
.RB [\| \-d \||\| \-\-device
.IR DEVICE \|]
.RB [\| \-e \||\| \-\-exclude\-list
.IR FILE \|]
.RB [\| \-o \||\| \-\-output
.IR FILE \|]
.RB [\| \-t \||\| \-\-type
.IR TYPE \|]
.PP
.B live\-snapshot
.RB [\| \-r \||\| \-\-resync\-string
.IR STRING \|]
.PP
.B live\-snapshot
.RB [\| \-h \||\| \-\-help \|]
.br
.B live\-snapshot
.RB [\| \-u \||\| \-\-usage \|]
.br
.B live-snapshot
.RB [\| \-v \||\| \-\-version \|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
live\-snapshot is a script which can be used to build the right types of persistent image files supported by \fIlive\-initramfs\fR(7). It is also used on exit by the live\-initramfs init script to resync the boot-found snapshots devices.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-cow\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR" 4
specifies the input directory to be cloned in the image file.
Its default value "/live/cow" should be right for most uses. However it could be handy to specify "/home" and type ext2 for the type to prepare an image file suited to be directly mounted by live-initramfs as home.
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-device\fR \fIDEVICE\fR" 4
sets the device where the media which the snapshot/persistence file/partition will be put. If it is not specified, a tmpfs will be used and linked to the user's desktop to move it where it is needed. If the device has no filesystem, an ext2 fs will be automatically created and labelled according to the values specified after the "--output" value or with a sane default.
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-exclude\-list\fR \fIFILE\fR" 4
a file containing a list of filenames/paths that should not be saved. This exclude list will be remebered on the target snapshot media for reuse.
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR" 4
the filename/label used for the output file/partition. If left blank, live-snapshot will search for a proper file on the device or use the whole partition.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-resync\-string\fR \fISTRING\fR" 4
internally used on resyncs.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-type\fR \fITYPE\fR" 4
Type could be one of "cpio", "squashfs" or "ext2".
.PP
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR" 4
display help and exit
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-usage\fR" 4
show usage and exit
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-version\fR" 4
output version information and exit

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIlive\-initramfs\fR(8)
.PP
This program is a part of live\-initramfs.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs against live\-initramfs <\fIhttp://packages.qa.debian.org/live\-initramfs/\fR>.

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about the Debian Live project can be found at <\fIhttp://debian\-live.alioth.debian.org/\fR> and <\fIhttp://wiki.debian.org/DebianLive/\fR>.

.SH AUTHORS
live\-initramfs is maintained by Daniel Baumann <\fIdaniel@debian.org\fR> and Marco Amadori <\fImarco.amadori@gmail.com\fR> for the Debian project.
.PP
live\-initramfs is a fork of casper <\fIhttp://packages.ubuntu.com/casper/\fR>. casper was originally written by Tollef Fog Heen <\fItfheen@canonical.com\fR> and Matt Zimmerman <\fImdz@canonical.com\fR>.
