.TH "CASPER-SNAPSHOT" 1 "Thu,  28 Sep 2006" "0.0.1" "User commands"

.SH NAME
casper-snapshot \- a simple script to ease persistence usage.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B casper-snapshot
.RB [\| \-c \||\| \-\-cow
.IR DIRECTORY \|]
.RB [\| \-d \||\| \-\-device
.IR DEVICE \|]
.RB [\| \-e \||\| \-\-exclude\-list
.IR FILE \|]
.RB [\| \-o \||\| \-\-output
.IR FILE \|]
.RB [\| \-t \||\| \-\-type
.IR TYPE \|]
.PP
.B casper-snapshot
.RB \-r \||\| \-\-resync\-string
.IR STRING
.br
.B casper-snapshot
.RB \-h \||\| \-\-help
.br
.B casper-snapshot
.RB \-u \||\| \-\-usage
.br
.B casper-snapshot
.RB \-v \||\| \-\-version

.SH DESCRIPTION
Casper-snapshot is a script useful to build the right types of persistent image files supported by casper, it is also used on exit by the casper init script to resync the boot-found snapshots devices.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c, \-\-cow" DIRECTORY
specifies the input directory to be cloned in the image file.
This parameters often does not need to be specified as the default of "/cow" for it should be right for most uses, however it could be handy to specify "/home" and type ext2 for the type to prepare an image file suited to be directly mounted by casper as home.
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\-device" DEVICE
the device on where the media which the snapshot/persistence file/partition will be put. If not specified a tmpfs will be used and linked on user's desktop to move it where he/her wants. If the device has not a filesystem on it, an ext2 fs will be created in it and labeled like --output options or with a sane default.
.TP
.BI "\-e, \-\-exclude\-list" FILE
you could pass a list of filenames/path that should not be saved. This exclude list will be remebered on the target snapshotting media for reuse.
.TP
.BI "\-o, \-\-output" FILE
the filename/label to be used for the output file/partition, if left blank it could search for a proper file on the device or use the whole partition.
.TP
.BI "\-r, \-\-resync\-string" STRING
internally used on resyncs.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-type" TYPE

.SH BUGS
.B casper-snapshot
Time (and BTS) will tell.

.SH HOMEPAGE
Debian Live project <http://live.debian.net/>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR casper(7)

.SH AUTHOR
casper-snapshot was written Marco Amadori <marco.amadori@gmail.com>.
.TP
This manual page was written by Marco Amadori <marco.amadori@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
